Bixmodeus' Binding of Perduring Possession
9th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an item to serve as a receptacle, made of materials worth at least 1000 gp per Hit Die of the target)
Duration: Until dispelled
Classes: Wizard
You embed the soul and personality of a willing target into an item. While affected by this spell, the target doesn't need to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn't age or die. It retains its senses. Divination spells can't locate or perceive the target.
The target's perception of the vessel may vary and is chosen by the caster as they form a mental image of the target's place of voluntary imprisonment. The target will be able to verbally communicate with creatures outside of the vessel, and to communicate telepathically with creatures attuned to the item. While within the vessel, the target may summon any mundane items they desire.
The item used as a vessel gains a magical aura about it and is inured to wear and damage. It also has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects, and resistant to damage originating from such. The item uses the statistics of the bound creature for saving throws, and the maximum value of the bound creature's Hit Dice (including its Constitution modifier) for determining the item's HP. Its AC is 25, and any damage to it is repaired at a rate of 5 HP per round.
Ending the Spell: The spell may be ended through a ceremonial ritual where diamonds worth at least 500gp per Hit Die of the bound target are fired in a brazier for 24 hours, stoked and fueled with rare herbs native to the target's place of birth. The item must be laid upon the diamonds for the duration of the ceremony, and the true name of the target chanted at its zenith. Performing this ritual will expunge the target's soul from the item, releasing it to its expected destination upon death, and destroying the possessed item along with all resources used in the ritual.
A Dispel Magic spell can end the spell only if it is cast as a 9th-level spell, targeting the item.

Grimlore’s Calamity
9th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Classes: Sorcerer, Warlock, Wizard
You create a shadowy pool on a flat surface that you can see within range. The pool is 25 feet in diameter and connects your plane to the Shadowfell. A medium-sized spectral hand rises from the center of the pool and remains there for the duration of the spell.
When a creature enters the pool for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or takes 8d12 necrotic damage and becomes restrained. It takes half damage and is not restrained on a success. Any creature that begins their turn restrained while in the pool sinks to its bottom and is immediately teleported to the Plane of Shadow, becoming trapped there.
Additionally, as a bonus action on each of your turns, you may command the spectral hand to beckon a creature within 60 feet. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature fails its saving throw, it is charmed for 1 minute or until it takes any damage. A charmed creature must spend its turns trying to move as close to the spectral hand as it can. It also can't take reactions. For its action, it can use only the Dash action.

Replicate
9th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (Some hair, fingernail clippings, or other piece of your body; and a ruby worth 2,500 gp, which is consumed by the spell)
Duration: Permanent
Classes: Wizard
You create a duplicate of yourself that is similar to you in every way at the time of casting. You can communicate with your duplicate telepathically, and it obeys all of your commands. Your duplicate has all of the same abilities (though none of your equipment), spells and features that you do, but these become shared resources between you both. If your duplicate casts a spell, you both lose the corresponding spell slot, for example. Your duplicate ages at the same rate as you do and is immune to the dispel magic spell. You may only have one duplicate active at a time, and your duplicate is not able to cast the replicate spell.
The duplicate dies when it drops to 0 hit points, ending spell ends. If you die while your duplicate is still alive, your soul is transferred to it, and it becomes your new form, ending the spell.

Tamara’s Rebirth
9th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (diamonds worth at least 10,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Up to 24 hours
Classes: Bard, Cleric, Druid
You touch a willing creature that has 1 or more hit points, infusing it with a blessing from Tamara, dragon goddess of life, light and mercy. If the target dies during the duration, for any reason except old age, the blessing is triggered. If its soul is free and willing, the target returns to life at the start of its next turn with hit points equal to half its hit point maximum. As a bonus action on the same turn, the target can expend as many of its hit dice as it chooses to heal itself. Roll each die spent, adding your Constitution modifier to each, and regain a number of hit points equal to the total.
This spell closes all wounds, neutralizes any poison, cures all diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the creature when it died. The spell replaces damaged or missing organs and limbs.
The spell can even provide a new body if the original no longer exists. The target then appears in an unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of where it died.